 Supreme Court of India. P.T. Thomas vs Thomas Job on 4 August, 2005, was given leave granted by Dr. Ar. Lakshmanan . The above is the result of an appeal by the Supreme Court .  Appeal is directed against the final order of the High Court of Kerala at Ernakulam dated 27.8.08.2003 in CRP No. 1136/2003 .  The appellant filed a suit for a mandatory injunction for the removal of the building and surrender vacant possession . The matter was referred to the Lok Adalat at the behest of the Respondent in the District Court . The appellant's suit was  The matter was settled in the Lok Adalat. r the Legal Services Authorities Act for resolution of the dispute . The award was for sale to the appellant or his nominee of the property scheduled to the award after a period of one year  The appellant was entitled to be paid to Rs. 3.5 lakhs by the Respondent . The Respondent did not execute the sale deed within the time fixed despite repeated requests by the appellant . The Appellant sent a lawyer  The Appellant thereafter sent a telegram on 26.10.2001 requesting the Respondent to execute the sale deed and also sent him a copy of his earlier notice by certificate of posting . The Subordinate Judge overruled all the  The High Court allowed the Revision filed by the Respondent and dismissed the execution petition on grounds, which according to the Appellant, are irrelevant and incorrect . The appellant was directed to deposit a sum of Rs. 9.5 lakh  Mr. TLV Iyer, learned senior counsel appearing for the Appellant submitted that the High Court has exceeded its jurisdiction under Section 115 C.P.C in entering into the investigation of questions of fact and appraisal of evidence .  The High Court is in error in holding that the Appellant did not have the funds with him to have the deed of sale executed in his favour . Mr.Iyer submitte submitted that the reasoning and premises are faulty and  The High Court said the view taken by the High Court would totally defeat the object and purposes of the Legal Services Authorities Act and render the decisions of the Lok Adalat meaningless . It is further submitted that the appellant also did not deposit  According to Mr. Vinod, the award cannot be equated with a decree and it only incorporates an agreement between the parties . In case of any violation of the said agreement, the parties lose their right to get the same executed and  It is submitted that the Appellant admittedly had not produced any material to show that the appellant had the resources to pay the said amount at any relevant point of time . The appellant is not entitled to any relief in this appeal .  P.T. Thomas vs Thomas Job on 4 August, 2005: Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/109249/ 2matter was compromised before the Lok Adalat and an award was passed  We do not find any merit in the submissions made by learned counsel for the Respondent. From the evidence and the documents filed, we see bona fides on the part of the appellant in giving effect to the appeal. From evidence,  It is seen from the records that the Appellant was compelled to file the suit for recovery of possession of Plot No. 2 . The suit was decreed on 26.7.1990 and appeal was filed by the Judgment Debtor  Judgment debtor/ Respondent failed to execute the sale deed after receiving Rs. 9.5 lakhs from the decree holder . The matter was compromised between parties on 5.10.1999. peal .  Judgment debtor is liable to execute the sale deed in favour of the decree holder only if he remits the amount as agreed, and since decree holder has failed to comply with the conditions . The respondent/J.D. was  executed  The executing court, accepting the evidence of PW 1 came to the conclusion that the notice issued requiring the respondent to execute the document as submitted in the award was not received by the Judgment debtor and it has been returned unclaimed .  Appellant after return of the Exhibit A2 notice immediately sent a .telegram to the Judgment debtor on 26.1.2001 . The receipt issued for the telegram and certified true .copy of the . telegram was marked  The notice sent by the decree holder through his Advocate on 3.10.2001 was returned unclaimed and copy of that notice was being forwarded by certificate of posting . The Judgment debtor was always ready and willing to pay Rs. 9.  P.T. Thomas vs Thomas Job on 4 August, 2005 . The appellant decree holder has expressed his readiness and willingness to deposit the amount of the award and get the document executed .  The learnedfullySubordinate Judge on a consideration of the entire evidence placed on record granted the Appellant three days time to deposit Rs. 9.5 lakhs before the said court upon which he could . The learnedlySubordinate  The appellant as directed by the learned SubordinateJudge deposited the entire sum of Rs. 9.5 lakhs in the sub-court on 7.4.2003 . The obligation was on the Respondent to evince his willingness to  There was already a decree of ejectment against the Respondent in the suit in the trial Court and it was his appeal that was sought to be settled in the .Lok Adalat . The settlement was a concession in his favour  It was he, in fact, who provided the amount which was deposited on 7.4.2003 and not on 8.3.2003 as assumed by the High Court . It is, thus, seen that the Appellant has  The High Court, in our view, has also misinterpreted Section 27 of the Post Office Act . The presumption of law is that the notice has been served on the Respondent .  High Court on this issue is not correct and not in accordance with factual position . In the notice issued, the Postman made the endorsement. This presumption is correct in law. The respondent did not receive the notice and it was returned un  In our opinion, the award of the Lok Adalat is fictionally deemed to be decrees of Court and thus the courts have all the powers in relation to the decree passed by the Post Office Act . This, in our opinion  The High Court has failed to note that by the award what is put an end to is the appeal inP.T. Thomas vs Thomas Job on 4 August, 2005 . The effect is the same. n court. In this connection  Every award of the Lok Adalat shall be deemed to be a decree of a Civil Court or, as the case may be, an order of any other Court and where a compromise has been arrived at, the court fee paid in  The Lok Adalat has the same powers as are vested in a Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 . Section 22 reads thus:- "No appeal shall lie to any Court against the award"  Every Lok Adalat has the requisite powers to specify its own procedure for the determination of any case . The discovery and production of any document, reception of evidence on affidavits and requisitioning of any public record .  Every Lok Adalat shall be deemed to be a Civil Court for the purpose of Sec. 195 and Chapter XXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2) of 1974 .  The word 'Lok Adalat' means 'People Court' This system is based on Gandhian Principles . It is one of the components of ADR system .  The experiment of 'Lok Adalat' as an alternate mode of dispute settlement has come to be accepted in India, as an economic, efficient and informal one . It provides alternative resolution or devise for expedious and costly justice .  There is no Court fee and if Court fee is already paid the amount will be refunded if the dispute is settled at Lok Adalat according to the law . The dispute will be settled by negotiation, conciliation and by adopting persuasive  The basic features of Lok Adalat are the procedural flexibility and speedy trial of the disputes . The parties to the dispute can directly interect with the Judge through their Counsel which is not possible in regular Courts of law . The award  The Lok Adalat shall proceed and dispose the cases and arrive at a compromise or settlement by following the legal principles, equity and natural justice . The award is non-appealable which does not causes the delay in the settlement of  The Lok Adalat will passes the award with the consent of the parties, therefore there is no need to reconsider or review the matter again and again . Even as under Section 96(3) of C.P.C.C  In Punjab National Bank vs. Lakshmichand Rah reported in AIR 2000 Madhya Pradesh 301, 304, the High Court held that "The provisions of the Act shall prevail in the matter of filing an appeal" The award of the  Lok Adalat is conducted under an independent enactment and once the award is made, the right of appeal shall be governed by the provisions of the Legal Services Authorities Act when it has been specifically barred . The Court further stated that even the  The High Court of Andhra Pradesh held that the appeal filed is not maintainable . The Code of Civilprocedure also intends that once a consent decree is passed by Civil Court finality is attached to it .  The award is enforceable as a decree and it is final . The award of a Lok Adalat is not a result of a contest o. d of Trustees of the Port of Visakhapatnam vs. Presiding  The award of the Lok Adalat cannot be challenged by any regular remedies available under law including invoking Article226 of the Constitution of India challenging the correctness of the award .  The award of Lok Adalat is final and permanent which is equivalent to a decree . Judicial review cannot be invoked in such awards especially on the grounds as raised in this writ petition .  In re South American and Mexican Co., Ex. Parte Bank of England, (1895) 1 Ch.37 & 1929 AC 482, Rel. on; P.T. Thomas vs Thomas Job on 4 August, 2005  Lord Herschell said a judgment by consent is intended to put a stop to litigation between the parties just as much as a judgment which results from the decision of the Court after the matter has been fought out to the end . iams,  Judicial Committee in 'Kinch v. Walvott', '1929 AC 482 at p.493 (D):- "It is of no advantage to the appellant that the order in the libel action which is said to raise  The same principle has been followed by the High Courts in India in a number of reported decisions . In the Calcutta case the High Court observed as follows : "On this author"  It becomes absolutely clear that the consent order is as effective as an order passed on contest, not only with reference to the conclusion arrived at in the previous suit but also with regard to every step in the process of reasoning on which the said  Civil Procedure Code provides for "compromise of suit" where it is proved to the satisfaction of the Court that a suit has been adjusted in part by any lawful agreement or compromise, written and signed by the parties .  The High Court has failed to note that the courts attempt should be to give P.T. Thomas vs Thomas Job . The appellant had waited till almost the last day for the respondent to perform his obligations .  This is a fit case, in our view, where the Respondent ought to have been directed to execute the sale deed by the extended time, if necessary . The High Court is also not correct in holding that the High Court has no  We direct the Respondent to execute the sale deed within two-weeks from today . The respondent is now entitled to withdraw Rs. 9.5 lakhs from the Sub-Court Alapuzha. ney .  P.T. Thomas vs Thomas Job on 4 August, 2005 . No costs .