 Appeal directed against the final order of the High Court of Kerala at Ernakulam dated 27.8.08.2003 in CRP No. 1136/2003 . The appellant filed a suit for a mandatory injunction for the removal  The matter was settled in the Lok Adalat. r the Legal Services Authorities Act for resolution of the dispute . The award was for sale to the appellant or his nominee of the property scheduled to the award after a period of one year  The High Court allowed the Revision filed by the Respondent and dismissed the execution petition on grounds, which according to the Appellant, are irrelevant and incorrect . The appellant was directed to deposit a sum of Rs. 9.5 lakh  The High Court is in error in holding that the Appellant did not have the funds with him to have the deed of sale executed in his favour . Mr.Iyer submitte submitted that the reasoning and premises are faulty .  The award cannot be equated with a decree and it only incorporates an agreement between the parties . In case of any violation of the said agreement, the parties lose their right to get the same executed . It is submitted that the Appell  P.T. Thomas vs Thomas Job on 4 August, 2005: Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/109249/ 2matter was compromised before the Lok Adalat and an award was passed  The Appellant was compelled to file the suit for recovery of possession of Plot No. 2 . The suit was decreed on 26.7.1990 and appeal was filed by the Judgment Debtor . The matter was compromised between parties  The notice issued requiring the respondent to execute the document as submitted in the award was not received by the Judgment debtor and it has been returned unclaimed . Appellant after return of the Exhibit A2 notice immediately sent a .telegram  The notice sent by the decree holder through his Advocate on 3.10.2001 was returned unclaimed and copy of that notice was being forwarded by certificate of posting . The Judgment debtor was always ready and willing to pay Rs. 9.  The learnedfullySubordinate Judge on a consideration of the entire evidence placed on record granted the Appellant three days time to deposit Rs. 9.5 lakhs before the said court upon which he could . The appellant as directed by  It was he, in fact, who provided the amount which was deposited on 7.4.2003 and not on 8.3.2003 as assumed by the High Court . The High Court, in our view, has also misinterpreted  The award of the Lok Adalat is fictionally deemed to be decrees of Court and thus the courts have all the powers in relation to the decree passed by the Post Office Act . The High Court has failed to note that by  The Lok Adalat has the same powers as are vested in a Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 . Section 22 reads thus- "No appeal shall lie to any Court against the awar"  The word 'Lok Adalat' means 'People Court' This system is based on Gandhian Principles .  The experiment of 'Lok Adalat' as an alternate mode of dispute settlement has come to be accepted in India, as an economic, efficient and informal one . It provides alternative resolution or devise for expedious and costly justice .  The parties to the dispute can directly interect with the Judge through their Counsel which is not possible in regular Courts of law . The award is non-appealable which does not causes the delay in the settlement of  The Lok  The award of the  Lok Adalat is conducted under an independent enactment and once the award is made, the right of appeal shall be governed by the Act . Even as under Section 96(3) of C.P.C  The High Court of Andhra Pradesh held that the appeal filed is not maintainable . The Code of Civilprocedure also intends that once a consent decree is passed by Civil Court finality is attached to it . The award is enforce  The award of Lok Adalat cannot be challenged by any regular remedies available under law including invoking Article226 of the Constitution of India challenging the correctness of the award . Judicial review cannot be invoked in such awards especially on the grounds as raised  Lord Herschell said a judgment by consent is intended to put a stop to litigation between the parties just as much as a judgment which results from the decision of the Court after the matter has been fought out to the end . The same principle  In the Calcutta case the High Court observed as follows : "On this author" The consent order is as effective as an order passed on contest, the court observed .  The High Court has failed to note that the courts attempt should be to give P.T. Thomas vs Thomas Job . The appellant had waited till almost the last day for the respondent to perform his obligations . This is a fit case,  The respondent is now entitled to withdraw Rs. 9.5 lakhs from the Sub-Court Alapuzha ney . P.T. Thomas vs Thomas Job on 4 August, 2005 .