 Appeal directed against the final order of the High Court of Kerala at Ernakulam dated 27.8.08.2003 in CRP No. 1136/2003 . The appellant filed a suit for a mandatory injunction for the removal  The High Court is in error in holding that the Appellant did not have the funds with him to have the deed of sale executed in his favour . Mr.Iyer submitte submitted that the reasoning and premises are faulty .  P.T. Thomas vs Thomas Job on 4 August, 2005: Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/109249/  The notice sent by the decree holder through his Advocate on 3.10.2001 was returned unclaimed . Appellant after return of the Exhibit A2 notice immediately sent a .telegram . Judgment debtor was always ready and willing to  Judge on a consideration of the entire evidence placed on record granted the Appellant three days time to deposit Rs. 9.5 lakhs before the said court upon which he could . The High Court, in our view, has also  High Court has failed to note that by The Lok Adalat has the same powers as are vested in a Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 . Section 22 reads thus- "No appeal shall lie to any Court against  The award is non-appealable which does not causes the delay in the settlement of The Lok . The award of the Lok Adalat is conducted under an independent enactment and once the award is made, the right of appeal shall  The High Court of Andhra Pradesh held that the appeal filed is not maintainable . The Code of Civilprocedure also intends that once a consent decree is passed by Civil Court finality is attached to it . The award of Lok  Lord Herschell said a judgment by consent is intended to put a stop to litigation between the parties just as much as a judgment which results from the decision of the Court after the matter has been fought out to the end . The consent order  The appellant had waited till almost the last day for the respondent to perform his obligations . This is a fit case,  The respondent is now entitled to withdraw Rs. 9.5 lakhs from the Sub-Court Alapuzha