Supreme Court of India: P.T. Thomas vs Thomas Job on 4 August, 2005 .  The appellant had to give up his right to be paid to Rs. 3.5 lakhs by the Respondent . The Respondent did not execute the sale deed within the time fixed despite repeated requests by the appellant . The Appell  The High Court is in error in holding that the Appellant did not have the funds with him to have the deed of sale executed in his favour . Mr.Iyer submitted that the view taken by the High Court would totally defeat  P.T. Thomas vs Thomas Job on 4 August, 2005: Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/109249/  Judgment debtor is liable to execute the sale deed in favour of the decree holder only if he remits the amount as agreed . Judgment debtor was ready and willing to deposit Rs.3.5.5 lakhs before the executing court .  P.T. Thomas vs Thomas Job on 4 August, 2005 Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/109249/ 3 .  The High Court, in our view, has also misinterpreted Section 27 of the Post Office Act . The award of the Lok Adalat is fictionally deemed to be decrees of Court and thus the courts have all the powers in  The High Court has failed to note that by the award what is put an end to is the appeal in P.T. Thomas vs Thomas Job on 4 August, 2005 . The effect is the same. n court. In this connection  'Lok Adalat' is an old form of adjudicating system prevailed in ancient India and it's validity has not been taken away even in the modern days too . The word "Lokadalat" means 'People  The basic features of Lok Adalat are the procedural flexibility and speedy trial of the disputes . The parties to the dispute can directly interect with the Judge through their Counsel which is not possible in regular Courts of law . The award  The High Court of Andhra Pradesh held that, in Board of Trustees of the Port of Visakhapatnam vs. . The award of a Lok Adalat is not a contest on merits just as a regular suit by  The award of Lok Adalat is final and permanent which is equivalent to a decree executable, and the same is an ending to the litigation among parties . Judicial review cannot be invoked in such awards especially on the grounds as raised in this  The Civil Procedure Code contains the following provisions: "Order 23 Rule 3 provides for the satisfaction of the Court that a suit has been adjusted in part by any lawful agreement or compromise, written and signed by the parties" In the Calcut  This is a fit case, in our view, where the Respondent ought to have been directed to execute the sale deed by the extended time, if necessary . The High Court is also not correct in holding that the Court has no .